Building an Army: Turrets & Combat · Step 4 of 5

Healing and sabotage

Builder Bots have two more combat-adjacent abilities worth knowing, and both are narrower than they might sound at first.

ct.heal(pos) repairs damaged friendly entities on a tile — like fire, it's restricted to a tile that's orthogonally adjacent to the Builder Bot (NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, or WEST, never diagonal and never its own tile) — for 4 HP at a cost of 1 titanium. It heals a building and a Builder Bot standing on it in the same call if both are friendly and damaged. Use ct.can_heal(pos) first — it checks adjacency, cooldown, titanium, and that there's actually damage to repair.

for d in (Direction.NORTH, Direction.SOUTH, Direction.EAST, Direction.WEST):
    target = ct.get_position().add(d)  # an adjacent tile, never your own
    if ct.can_heal(target):
        ct.heal(target)
        break

ct.fire(pos) is more restrictive than it looks: a Builder Bot can only target a tile that's orthogonally adjacent to it — NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, or WEST of its current position, never diagonal and never its own tile — and only damages the building there. It's not a way to attack a nearby enemy unit — for that, you'd need a turret. What it's actually for is sabotage: walk up next to an enemy's logistics chain (Conveyor and Splitter tiles are walkable, so you could also stand on one and fire at whatever's next to you) and damage a building from the side. Two titanium per hit, same as the cost of the shot itself.

for d in (Direction.NORTH, Direction.SOUTH, Direction.EAST, Direction.WEST):
    target = ct.get_position().add(d)  # an adjacent tile, never your own
    if ct.can_fire(target):
        ct.fire(target)
        break

One more method you'll see referenced elsewhere: ct.self_destruct(). Older material (including some in-game documentation) describes it as dealing area damage when you blow up — that's no longer how it works. Self-destructing a Builder Bot today deals zero damage to anything nearby; it just removes the unit. Its only real use is freeing up your 50-unit cap or retreating a doomed bot before it gets picked off for a bounty — it is not a weapon.

Try it

You don't need a full match to see these work — try building a Conveyor on a tile adjacent to your Builder Bot, firing at that tile a couple of times to damage it, then healing it back up:

if ct.can_fire(pos):
    ct.fire(pos)
elif ct.can_heal(pos):
    ct.heal(pos)

What you should see: the Conveyor's HP drop by 2 each time you fire, then climb back by 4 each time you heal, in the replay's building-health display.

Next: recap, and putting a full economy-plus-defense bot together.

The ammo gapRecap & checkpoint
