Builder Bot

Overview

Builder Bots are your team's mobile workforce. They are the only entities that can move freely across the map, and they are responsible for constructing and repairing all buildings.

Stats

Property

Value

HP

40

Cost

30 Ti

Vision radius²

20

Action range

Orthogonally adjacent tile only (Build, Attack, Heal, Destroy — no radius)

Move cooldown

1 round

Action cooldown

1 round

Passable terrain

Builder Bots can traverse:

Any tile with no building on it, as long as it isn't a WALL — this includes EMPTY tiles and ORE_TITANIUM tiles, even before a Harvester is built there

Tiles with a Conveyor or Splitter building, belonging to either team

Walls (WALL), tiles occupied by another Builder Bot, and tiles with any other building (Harvester, Barrier, a Core — including your own — or a turret) are impassable. The Core's 2×2 footprint is never bot-passable, even for its own team.

Abilities

Move

Move one tile in one of the 4 cardinal directions — NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, or WEST. Builder Bots cannot move diagonally: can_move(<diagonal>) returns False, and calling move(<diagonal>) raises a GameError ("Cannot move diagonally: builder bots move only in cardinal directions (N/E/S/W)"). Moving triggers a move cooldown. A successful move or action blocks the other for the rest of that round — building on a tile and walking onto it now takes two separate rounds.

(This restricts only Builder Bot movement; diagonal directions are still valid for turret facing and building orientation. Vision radius still includes diagonal tiles — Build, Attack, Heal, and Destroy do not, see below.)

To step toward a target, use Position.cardinal_direction_to(target), which always returns a legal cardinal step (or CENTRE if already there). Use Direction.is_cardinal() to test whether a direction is a legal move.

target = ct.get_position().cardinal_direction_to(goal)
if ct.can_move(target):
    ct.move(target)

Build

Construct a building on any orthogonally adjacent tile — NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, or WEST of the Builder Bot's current position. Diagonal tiles and its own tile are not valid build targets. Each build type has its own can_build_* check. Building triggers an action cooldown. A successful move or action blocks the other for the rest of that round — building on a tile and walking onto it now takes two separate rounds.

for d in (Direction.NORTH, Direction.SOUTH, Direction.EAST, Direction.WEST):
    target = ct.get_position().add(d)
    if ct.can_build_gunner(target, Direction.EAST):
        ct.build_gunner(target, Direction.EAST)
        break

Attack

Builder Bots can attack the building on any orthogonally adjacent tile — NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, or WEST of their current position. Diagonal tiles and their own tile are not valid targets. This is mainly useful for sabotage: since Builder Bots can walk onto enemy Conveyor/Splitter tiles, you can walk up next to (or onto, then fire at a neighboring tile of) an enemy's logistics chain and damage it. Costs 2 Ti per hit for 2 damage.

for d in (Direction.NORTH, Direction.SOUTH, Direction.EAST, Direction.WEST):
    target = ct.get_position().add(d)
    if ct.can_fire(target):
        ct.fire(target)
        break

Heal

Builder Bots can heal all friendly entities on any orthogonally adjacent tile — NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, or WEST of their current position. Diagonal tiles and their own tile are not valid targets. Heals 4 HP for 1 Ti — if a friendly Builder Bot is standing on a friendly building on the target tile, both are healed in the same call.

for d in (Direction.NORTH, Direction.SOUTH, Direction.EAST, Direction.WEST):
    target = ct.get_position().add(d)
    if ct.can_heal(target):
        ct.heal(target)
        break

Destroy

Builder Bots can destroy an allied building on any orthogonally adjacent tile — NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, or WEST of their current position. Diagonal tiles and their own tile are not valid targets. Unlike Build, Attack, and Heal, Destroy costs no titanium and does not use the action cooldown — you can destroy any number of allied buildings this way in a single round.

for d in (Direction.NORTH, Direction.SOUTH, Direction.EAST, Direction.WEST):
    target = ct.get_position().add(d)
    if ct.can_destroy(target):
        ct.destroy(target)
        break

Self-destruct

Destroy this Builder Bot. Self-destructing deals zero damage to anything nearby — it's not a weapon, just a way to free up your unit cap or retreat a doomed bot before it can be destroyed.

ct.self_destruct()

Unit cap

Builder Bots count toward the 50-unit team cap. When the cap is reached, the Core cannot spawn additional bots until an existing one is destroyed or self-destructs.
